Contribute.md, before:

# Developer Corner

We gather here info and tips for current and future developers of the Java SDK.

## Regenerate the SDK

We use [swagger-codegen](https://swagger.io/docs/open-source-tools/swagger-codegen/) to generate the
java client.

For the time being, we rather clone the repository in a temp location to generate the new version of
the code and then replace the `com.pydio.cells.openapi` package in the local repository, to avoid
polluting the main repo with autogenerated files (gradle, doc, config files...)

### With OpenAPI 3

Note: you can check for new
release [here](https://github.com/OpenAPITools/openapi-generator/releases).

```sh
mkdir -p /tmp/forSwagger
cd /tmp/forSwagger
git clone https://github.com/pydio/cells-sdk-java.git
cd cells-sdk-java

GENERATOR_VERSION=7.4.0
wget https://repo1.maven.org/maven2/org/openapitools/openapi-generator-cli/${GENERATOR_VERSION}/openapi-generator-cli-${GENERATOR_VERSION}.jar -O openapi-generator-cli.jar

```

(Temporary) _a la mano_

- Retrieve default json swagger v2 spec
  file: https://raw.githubusercontent.com/pydio/cells/main/common/proto/rest/cellsapi-rest.swagger.json
- Copy/paste specification file at: https://editor-next.swagger.io/
- use Edit / convert to YAML
- use Edit / convert to v3
- paste back the specs in the root java project typically in cellsapi-rest.swagger.yml

**WARNING**: temporary tweak to go on supporting pre-v4 Cells remote servers:
After migrating the swagger spec file to v3 yaml format, we manually edit it to re-add a "JobName"
body parameters for job requests, otherwise, such request to a v3 server will fail.
Typically for v4-beta1, edit at line 3015, add `JobName` parameter to have:

```yml
...
/jobs/user/{JobName}:
  put:
    tags:
      - JobsService
    summary: Create a predefined job to be run directly
    operationId: UserCreateJob
    parameters:
      - name: JobName
        in: path
        description: Name of the job to create in the user space
        required: true
        schema:
          type: string
    requestBody:
      content:
        application/json:
          schema:
            title: RestUserJobRequest
            type: object
            properties:
              ### Add the 3 lines below
              JobName:
                title: Also add JobName in body to keep backward compatibility with pre v4 versions
                type: string
              ### Until here
              JsonParameters:
                title: Json-encoded parameters for this job
                type: string
      required: true
    responses:
...
```

Then generate the SDK

```sh
# WARNING: Update
SDK_DEFAULT_AGENT="PydioCells/v4.4.0-alpha2/JavaSDK/v0.4.5"

java -jar openapi-generator-cli.jar generate -g java \
    -i ./cellsapi-rest.swagger.yml \
    -o /tmp/forSwagger/cells-sdk-java \
    --invoker-package com.pydio.cells.openapi \
    --api-package com.pydio.cells.openapi.api \
    --model-package com.pydio.cells.openapi.model \
    --http-user-agent ${SDK_DEFAULT_AGENT}

cd $GITPATH/github.com/pydio/cells-sdk-java/src/main/java/com/pydio/cells/
rm -rf ./openapi

mv /tmp/forSwagger/cells-sdk-java/src/main/java/com/pydio/cells/openapi .

# Also copy used sagger file for later references
export CELLS_VERSION=4.4.0-alpha2
cp /tmp/forSwagger/cells-sdk-java/cellsapi-rest.swagger.yml $GITPATH/github.com/pydio/cells-sdk-java/src/main/java/com/pydio/cells/openapi/cellsapi-rest-${CELLS_VERSION}.swagger.yml

# For the record, more details about the possible options:
java -jar swagger-codegen-cli.jar help generate
```

#### More tweaks

In Jan. 2023, we should also do the following to finalize SDK generation:

- Import the project in Android Studio to insure we did not miss any issue
- Change the `javax.ws` prefix in the package imports of all class in the openapi package, to
  import `jakarta.ws.rs.core.GenericType` rather than `javax.ws.rs.core.GenericType`: the later
  package is not maintained anymore.
- perform a "optimize import" on the `com.pydio.cells.openapi` client to remove unnecessary
  warnings.

## Developer Tips

### Testing OAuth with a Cells server

When testing OAuth and app behaviour on the long run, it might be useful to reduce the validity
duration of the JWT token.
To do this, simply (backup and) impact your main `pydio.json` configuration file to add this param:

`"services"."pydio.web.oauth"."refreshTokenLifespan":"1m"`

For the record, validity duration is expressed as a [go duration](https://pkg.go.dev/time#Duration),
and is set by default to 10 minutes (`10m`).

### Various

A list of random resources on the _WWW_ that have helped along the way and are kept here for
reference.

- We use git submodules to ease day-to-day development work,
  see [this interesting post](https://blog.bitsrc.io/how-to-utilize-submodules-within-git-repos-5dfdd1c62d09)
- A [must read](https://auth0.com/docs/flows/call-your-api-using-the-authorization-code-flow) to
  understand how we manage authentication when target remote server is a Pydio Cells instance.

### Temporary Tips

#### For refactoring

- We might want to change the package that is used by the swagger generated model and rename
  packages in a future proof way. We will go trough a temporary phase where we put generated methods
  at 2 distinct locations while deprecating the legacy one. Some solution can be found
  in [this stackoverflow question](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/5074454/what-is-the-clearest-way-to-deprecate-a-package-in-java)

Commit message:

Regenerate Java SDK with latest version of the Swagger spec

Contribute.md, after:

# Developer Corner

We gather here info and tips for current and future developers of the Java SDK.

## Regenerate the SDK

We use [swagger-codegen](https://swagger.io/docs/open-source-tools/swagger-codegen/) to generate the
java client.

For the time being, we rather clone the repository in a temp location to generate the new version of
the code and then replace the `com.pydio.cells.openapi` package in the local repository, to avoid
polluting the main repo with autogenerated files (gradle, doc, config files...)

### With OpenAPI 3

Note: you can check for new
release [here](https://github.com/OpenAPITools/openapi-generator/releases).

```sh
mkdir -p /tmp/forSwagger
cd /tmp/forSwagger
git clone https://github.com/pydio/cells-sdk-java.git
cd cells-sdk-java

GENERATOR_VERSION=7.4.0
wget https://repo1.maven.org/maven2/org/openapitools/openapi-generator-cli/${GENERATOR_VERSION}/openapi-generator-cli-${GENERATOR_VERSION}.jar -O openapi-generator-cli.jar

```

(Temporary) _a la mano_

- Retrieve default json swagger v2 spec
  file: https://raw.githubusercontent.com/pydio/cells/main/common/proto/rest/cellsapi-rest.swagger.json
- Copy/paste specification file at: https://editor-next.swagger.io/
- use Edit / convert to YAML
- use Edit / convert to v3
- paste back the specs in the root java project typically in cellsapi-rest.swagger.yml

**WARNING**: temporary tweak to go on supporting pre-v4 Cells remote servers:
After migrating the swagger spec file to v3 yaml format, we manually edit it to re-add a "JobName"
body parameters for job requests, otherwise, such request to a v3 server will fail.
Typically for v4-beta1, edit at line 3015, add `JobName` parameter to have:

```yml
...
/jobs/user/{JobName}:
  put:
    tags:
      - JobsService
    summary: Create a predefined job to be run directly
    operationId: UserCreateJob
    parameters:
      - name: JobName
        in: path
        description: Name of the job to create in the user space
        required: true
        schema:
          type: string
    requestBody:
      content:
        application/json:
          schema:
            title: RestUserJobRequest
            type: object
            properties:
              ### Add the 3 lines below
              JobName:
                title: Also add JobName in body to keep backward compatibility with pre v4 versions
                type: string
              ### Until here
              JsonParameters:
                title: Json-encoded parameters for this job
                type: string
      required: true
    responses:
...
```

Then generate the SDK

```sh
# WARNING: Update
SDK_DEFAULT_AGENT="PydioCells/v4.4.0-alpha2/JavaSDK/v0.4.5"

java -jar openapi-generator-cli.jar generate -g java \
    -i ./cellsapi-rest.swagger.yml \
    -o /tmp/forSwagger/cells-sdk-java \
    --invoker-package com.pydio.cells.openapi \
    --api-package com.pydio.cells.openapi.api \
    --model-package com.pydio.cells.openapi.model \
    --http-user-agent ${SDK_DEFAULT_AGENT}

cd $GITPATH/github.com/pydio/cells-sdk-java/src/main/java/com/pydio/cells/
rm -rf ./openapi

mv /tmp/forSwagger/cells-sdk-java/src/main/java/com/pydio/cells/openapi .

# Also copy used sagger file for later references
export CELLS_VERSION=4.4.0-alpha2
cp /tmp/forSwagger/cells-sdk-java/cellsapi-rest.swagger.yml $GITPATH/github.com/pydio/cells-sdk-java/src/main/java/com/pydio/cells/openapi/cellsapi-rest-${CELLS_VERSION}.swagger.yml

# For the record, more details about the possible options:
java -jar swagger-codegen-cli.jar help generate
```

#### More tweaks

In Feb 2025 with generator v7.11.0, we also do the followings to finalize a clean SDK:

- Import the project in Android Studio to ensure we did not miss any issue
- perform a "optimize import" on the `com.pydio.cells.openapi` client to remove unnecessary
  warnings.


## Developer Tips

### Testing OAuth with a Cells server

When testing OAuth and app behaviour on the long run, it might be useful to reduce the validity
duration of the JWT token.
To do this, simply (backup and) impact your main `pydio.json` configuration file to add this param:

`"services"."pydio.web.oauth"."refreshTokenLifespan":"1m"`

For the record, validity duration is expressed as a [go duration](https://pkg.go.dev/time#Duration),
and is set by default to 10 minutes (`10m`).

### Various

A list of random resources on the _WWW_ that have helped along the way and are kept here for
reference.

- We use git submodules to ease day-to-day development work,
  see [this interesting post](https://blog.bitsrc.io/how-to-utilize-submodules-within-git-repos-5dfdd1c62d09)
- A [must read](https://auth0.com/docs/flows/call-your-api-using-the-authorization-code-flow) to
  understand how we manage authentication when target remote server is a Pydio Cells instance.

### Temporary Tips

#### For refactoring

- We might want to change the package that is used by the swagger generated model and rename
  packages in a future proof way. We will go trough a temporary phase where we put generated methods
  at 2 distinct locations while deprecating the legacy one. Some solution can be found
  in [this stackoverflow question](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/5074454/what-is-the-clearest-way-to-deprecate-a-package-in-java)

#### More tweaks

In Jan. 2023, we also had to do the following to finalize SDK generation:
=> it seems to not be compulsory anymore in Feb 2025 with generator v7.11.0

- Change the `javax.ws` prefix in the package imports of all class in the openapi package, to
  import `jakarta.ws.rs.core.GenericType` rather than `javax.ws.rs.core.GenericType`: the later
  package is not maintained anymore.
